You'll need to download four files: the .ino and the three .h files.  IF USING TTGO XI/WeMo XI YOU'LL ALSO NEED WHAT 
YOU'LL FIND AT   https://github.com/wemos/Arduino_XI  (IDE support for TTGO XI/WeMo XI), BUT IF YOU COMPILE UNDER LINUX, 
READ THAT ISSUES SECTION FOR THE BOARDS.TXT FILE MODIFICATION DUE TO THE DIRECTORY DELIMITER CHARACTER DIFFERENCE ( \ -> 
/ ) 

# Arduino_home_thermostat
I use this sketch in the Arduino UNO, Mega2560, Leonardo and Wemo XI (TTGO XI) as my thermostat, and you can easily 
modify it for humidistat as well.  I have compiled it for all boards I could select in the IDE and ensured it would 
compile for the boards having at least 32K flash.  

Currently only DHT11, DHT22, and KY-013 sensors are interpreted, but any analog sensor can be connected to an analog 
input pin for its raw level to be available to the host computer via serial communications.  This allows the host to 
execute any appropriate algorithm for any analog sensor.  Obviously, the DHT sensors can connect to Digital and dual-
mode pins while the KY-013 can connect to Analog and dual-mode pins. UNDOCUMENTED FOR LACK OF FLASH IN SOME BOARDS: I 
RECOMMEND WHEN USING A DIGITAL SENSOR ON A PIN THAT YOU ADD 128 TO THE PIN NUMBER WHEN STORING IT IN EEPROM SO IF THE 
DIGITAL SENSOR FAILS THE SKETCH WILL NOT READ AN ANALOG VALUE FROM THAT PIN!  (The thermostat user can store bytes in
EEPROM by using the "ch pers" command.  It stands for change persistent memory.  See help screen.)  Note that the 
accuracy of a KY-013 analog sensor depends on the DC voltage supplying the "-" pin (these sensors are labeled opposite 
what the sketch formula is!)  For the best accuracy, supply these sensors with an adjustable and stable supply.  Other 
factors affecting analog sensor accuracy are the resistances of the two components of the sensor circuit (thermistor and 
resistor supposedly matching thermistor resistance at 25Â°C).  I've noticed very lax tolerances of these two components 
between sensor boards.  I'll be adjusting the formula for calibration as I learn more how to make it realistic, but 
right now an array of one byte per analog pin is stored at an address found in EEPROM bytes 12 and 13.  The byte value 
from that array for any particular analog pin is fully added to raw analog values greater than 512, and decrementally 
added to raw values between 512 and 329.  No adjustment is made to raw readings below 329.  This was empirically determined.

This sketch also makes Arduino Digital pins to be readable and settable from an optional serial-connected host computer.  
Analog input pins as well will report their raw reading, but pins restricted to Analog only mode cannot be set to 
be outputs.

You send the command "read pin..." to read the raw signal (not interpreted to temperature/humidity) on pins.  You'll 
follow the two words with a pin number or a period to mean all pins.  In this way, you may use host computing of the 
analog readings for an alternate to the formula of the sketch.

They will instead report a computed temperature of a DHT or an assumed KY-013 if you send the command "sens read..." 
with the same ending as in the previous sentence.  

The host computer can control and read both the digital voltage levels and DHT data of any pin.  For maximum capability, 
the host computer can optionally run [a] capturing daemon[s] to receive and process the logging output from the Arduino.  
Temperature changes logging, an option if main logging is also on, is on by default.  The host computer can utilize 
temperature changes data to track and analyze or to incorporate into a ceiling fan control algorithm, just to name a 
couple uses.  See the auxiliary host processing scripting that I use in Ubuntu in the file above titled similarly.  In 
Ubuntu remember to grant membership to the dialout group for the host Ubuntu computer to establish serial communications 
to the Arduino.

Being connected via USB to my Ubuntu headless firewall, I have remote control of it from over the Internet.  It will 
send alerts to the host for furnace failure to heat. I use a bash script on the host to email me in event of furnace 
failure.  

EEPROM is utilized so the thermostat settings are persistent across power cycling.

See the screen shot of the help screen that it can display.  Sensors must be either DHT11, DHT22, or KY-013 in this 
version, except that the raw analog reading of any analog sensor may be read by the host for host-side algorithms.  It 
expects two sensors - a primary and a backup (secondary) sensor for failsafe operation.  Because sensors are read 
without utilizing interrupts, any digital pin other than the serial communications can be used for DHT sensors!  A 
little-documented feature is that the pins driving sensors can be forced to only allow DHT devices by adding 128 to the 
EEPROM location storing the digital pin number for that sensor.  This is a safety feature: in case the DHT sensor fails, 
the 128 added to the pin number stored in EEPROM prevents the pin from going into analog mode and interpreting any 
voltage appearing on the pin as a signal from an analog (KY-013) temperature sensor.

This sketch is also a wrapper to allow the host computer to read and control the Arduino digital pins with or without 
taking advantage of the thermostat functionality!  As examples:

-  I have my host computer calculate when my porchlights are to be turned on and off through a pin by lookup file of    
   sunset and sunrise times

-  I have my coffee maker outlet connected to another pin and host-controlled on a schedule 

-  The host computer can read temperatures and humidities from more DHT11/22 devices on other pins.  Outdoor temperature 
   and humidity can thus be acquired by the host computer

-  Ceiling fan control

-  Duct damper operation for room-specific heating/cooling can be effected with host-side integration.

-  Etc., etc.!  See the help screen for details.

This sketch occupies all or nearly all available flash (program) memory in boards having 32K of flash.  Therefore, 
you'll not be able to add features in some 32K flash Arduinos, and some boards will lack the "auto" thermostat mode for 
the same reason.  Actual compiled sketch size varies in the range of 27K-28K, so boards that allow the entirety of the 
32K flash for the user's sketch will have some flash space available for you to add features.  Note that certain of 
these boards don't even have have enough flash to both initialize EEPROM and advance to production environment operation 
in the same compilation.  Be prepared to compile twice for Leonardo, TTGO, Micro, et. al.; once for EEPROM intitializing 
and the final time for production environment operation.  SUPPORTING LIBRARIES CAN ALWAYS INCREASE IN THEIR COMPILED 
SIZES!  IF THAT HAPPENS, THIS SKETCH PROBABLY WON'T FIT IN SOME BOARDS THAT I AM CLAIMING IT FITS IN AT THIS TIME.

TTGO XI/WeMo XI NOTE:  This board trades flash to simulate EEPROM at a cost of 2 to 1.  This sketch assumes your 
compiler EEPROM command line settings are set for 1K EEPROM.  That is the minimum block size of EEPROM the board allows.  
Any more EEPROM by the compiler and this sketch will not fit.  Fortunately for me, my default compiler settings were 
correct to this requirement, otherwise I wouldn't know how to change them back to what they are.

IMPORTANT SAFETY NOTE - Proper electrical isolation by relay or opto-isolation must be observed whenever connecting to 
building electrical or furnace controls or other electrical equipment.  For the furnace controls, I use relays driven by 
open-collector NPN transistors with a 12vdc power supply.  Don't forget the diode across the relay coil.  For 120vac 
switching, I use opto-coupled dc-drive SSRs, again, driven by NPN transistors and 12vdc.

TODO - Future enhancements are reserved for boards having greater than 32K flash size: I2C port expansion, Arduino-side 
duct damper operation for shared-furnace environments.

WANTED:  ASSISTANCE CONDENSING THE SIZE OF THIS SKETCH BY USE OF ASM CODE.  ANY TAKERS?  POST AN ISSUE, PLEASE.

# Summary:
 FUTURE: Improvement to Analog calibration possible

Less flash-endowed boards cannot hold thermostat "auto" mode code, so those boards are identified during compilation by using definitions and will only compile with "heat", "cool", and "off" mode options.

Expect tweaking on the Analog calibration algorithm as I experiment with different boards and thermistor modules.

TTGO/WeMos XI may have Analog pin pullup leakage.  I may investigate into a solution.

Overall, I now present a finished product.
